CSS Reference Sheet

CSS Property Value Pairs

Below is a table of some useful css properties with possible values. Use this as a reference throughout the course to help you style your web pages. For a more complete reference sheet Click Here.

<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="stylesheet.css"/> - Links your html page to your css file

p {
 color:blue; - Proper CSS Syntax
 }

Remember in the example above 'color' is the property and 'blue' is the value.

To comment out CSS code use /* ... */, see below.

/* p{
 color:blue;
 } */


Property

Possible Value(s)

Description


Text Manipulation and Styling Properties

font-size: 20px;
 2em;
 80%;
 px means pixels.
 em is based off default size. 2em is twice as large as default.
 % - 100% equals 12 point font, other %'s are based off that.
 
font-family: arial;
 'Times New Roman;'
 many others  There a lots of fonts to choose from.
click here for many web safe fonts to use.  
color: blue;
 #0000FF;
 rgb(0,0,255);  All of those will display blue text.  
text-align: center;
 left;
 right;  Aligns text directionally. 
text-decoration: none;
 underline;
 overline;
 line-through;
 Commonly used to remove underline from links. 
font-weight: bold;
 normal;
 900; Makes text bold, removes bold or number value to how bold you want it. 
list-style-type: none;
 square;
 circle;
 lots of them Specifies the type of list-item marker in a list. Click here for others 
line-height: 2em;
 also px & %. Vertically aligns the text 

Block Manipulation and Styling Properties

background-color: blue;
 #0000FF;
 rgb(0,0,255);  Fills shape with specified color. 
height: 300px; Defines the height of the shape. Use px, % or em. 
width: 300px; Defines the width of the shape. Use px, % or em. 
border: 2px solid black; This is the short hand way of setting a border. To do each value individually do:
 border-color:black;
 border-style:solid;
 border-width:2px; 
border-style: solid;
 dotted;
 dashed;
 double;
 groove;
 ridge;  Defines how the border style will be displayed 
position: absolute;
 fixed;
 relative;
 absolute - Stays in its place regardless of other elements.
fixed - Element will be positioned in relation to the browser window (it moves with a scrolling window).
relative - Element is positioned relative to itself. It can easily be manipulated by adding directional properties, ie top:25px; will add 25px above the element.  
display block;
 inline;
 inline-block;
 none;  block - Won't allow other elements to be next to it, but you may set its own height, width, margins etc.
inline - Elements can sit next to it, but you can't set its own height, width, margins etc. Takes shape of it's HTML content.
inline-block - Elements can sit next to it, and you can set its own height, width, margins etc.
none - Element is not displayed, it disappears. 
border-radius: 10px; Rounds the corners of a border. To make a circle, use 50% as the value. 
margin:
 auto;
 25px;
 Margins are the space between the borders of two elements
auto - Equal margins on all sides, used to center a block element.
25px; - Margins of 25px applied to each side of the block.
 
margin-top:
 margin-right:
 margin-bottom:
 margin-left:  25px; Applies margin to the appropriate direction.
 
padding: 25px; Padding is the space between the border and the content inside the block.
 Properties & values are the same as margins except you cannot use negative values. 
float: left;
 right;
 none;  Moves the block to appropriate position in its container, other elements will flow around it.  
clear: left;
 right;
 both;  Clears the float, so elements will stop flowing around a floated block. 

Link Manipulation and Styling Properties

a:link{
 color:  yellow; Changes the initial displayed link color. 
a:visited{
 color:  orange; Changes the link color once the link has been visited. 
a:active{
 color: pink; Changes the link color while being clicked on. 
a:hover{
 color: white; Changes the link color while hovering your mouse over it. 
